Roll no 25,40,19,08,22
Document:System Requirement Specification Document
Title: System Requirement Specification for Online hotel booking portal

Team:
Direct Customer, Indirect Customer,Architect, Business Analyst
Quality Assurance Team,
System Analyst

Objective (Purpose):
The online hotel booking portal for end users is intended to provide complete
solution
for end users,hotel management (Staff) through a single gateway using
internet.It will help hotel management to set up online reservations,customers to browse
rooms virtually.
Scope:
This system allows customers to browse through available rooms and hotels and can
compare rooms based on different criteria .Customers will be able to cancel booking within 24
hours.
The system will be able to notify both the hotel management as well as the customers
about the booking.
Definitions:
QA: Quality Assurance
Portal: Personalized Online Web Application
MIS: Management Information System
CRM: Customer Relation Management
BI: Business Intelligence
Dashboard: Personalized information presented using BI techniques such grid, score
card, graph

Requirements:
Functional Requirements:

From customer point of view:

1. Any anonymous user will be able to view all the rooms available in different categories
according to their requirement.
2. If user wants to book a room he needs to create an account. If he has already existing
account he need to log in.
3. User will be able to make the payment via different gateways.
4. After successful payment user will be notified regarding successful booking via sms and mail.
5. User will be able to see his bookings in booking history. User can see unique booking id for
his booking status.
6. User will be able to cancel his booking 24 hours prior to his check in.
7. Registered user will be get notification regarding different offers available according to his
booking history.
8. Hotel listing will be filtered according to user selected category, price range, rating, popularity,
location.
9. User can give ratings, write reviews according to their experience in hotel.
10. User can see hotel room descriptions, photo gallery, amenities available, type of room,
rating and reviews given by other users.
11. Customer will be able to update his/ her personal information. Customer will be able to
manage his profile maintained by system. Customer will be able to change his credentials if
required.
12. Customer will get complete information about his bookings, details through a dashboard.
13. Customer will be able to update his payment related information.

From hotel staff point of view:
1. Registered hotels will be able to promote their listings for booking by adding it to the catalog
maintained by the system.
2. Hotel staff will be able to approve or reject any bookings.
3. Registered hotels will be able to update or delete any detail about their listing.
4. Staff will be informed in advanced about availability of rooms.
5. Staff will be able to track their booking sale being done through online booking portal.
From System point of view:
1. System staff will be able to approve or reject any listings from the catalog.
2. System will be able to request for any updation from the registered hotels.
3. Sales team will approve or reject the request of registered hotels to update or delete any
detail about their listing.
4. System will be to track and maintain listing of room available for booking. System will be able
to raise requests for listing updation from registered hotels.
5. System will be informed in advanced about availability of rooms in rooms catalog.
6. Sales team will be able get details of booking of a particular Customer. Sales team will be
able to cancel , reject or approve booking that has been placed by customer due to some
policies of Business.

7. BOD will be able to see summary of bookings been placed , rejected from booking
processing of System. BOD will get Business insight by observing daily operations with getting
booking information.
8. Sales team will be able to monitor bookings done by their customers.
9. System will present dashboard for Customers, registered hotels as well as BOD.
10. Dashboard will provide information using graph, score cards, key performance indicators as
well Grid data prestation. BOD will be informed about business operations through reports.
11. Sales team will be able to monitor daily online booking business activities using their
personalized dashboard.
12. System and Technical team ( IT Operations team) will be able monitor system operations by
monitoring logs maintained.
NonFunctional Requirement:

Security:
Every customer has to register themselves using their email id and phone number.
For authentication otp will be send to their registered contact number.
Only Registered Customer will be allowed to book a room.
Each Hotel Management will be to access system through authentication process.
System will provide access to the content , operations using Role based security
(Authorization) (Permissions based on Role).
Proper firewall will be used to protect servers from out side fishing, vulnerable attacks.
The system must ensure that all the transferable data as for examples customers credit or debit
card number, CVV Code, e-payment should be done in secured connection.

Reliability:
The system will backup business data and recover in short time duration to keep system
operational continuous updates are maintained
Availability:
The website will be available and running for 24*7, except for maintenance work.
Accessibility:
The system should support almost all the browsers (Internet Explorer, Safari, Chrome, and
Firefox).
Maintainability:

A Commercial database software will be used to maintain System data Persistence.
A readymade Web Server will be installed to host online hotel booking web site to management
server capabilities.
IT operations team will easily monitor and configure System using Administrative tools provided
by Servers.
Separate environment will be maintained for system for isolation in production, testing, and
development.
Portability:
PDA: Portable Device Application
System will provide portable User Interface ( HTML, CSS, JS) through users will be able to
access online hotel booking website.
System can be deployed to any type of server.
Not dependent on particular os.

Efficiency:
On summer season, maximum number of users will search for hotels and in diffrent cities so it
should be able handle to the traffic and site should perform all operations smoothly.
The system must be able to handle multiple transactions a time.

Scalability:
The site should be designed to handle large amounts of traffic, especially during peak summer
seasons or big events in that city.

List of Business entities:
Payments: Paymentid, Payment date, amount, status, payment type, payment receipt
Hotel: hotelid, hotel name, location, type, country
Rooms: Roomid, roomprice, room type, room status, amenities, description
Customer: customerId, customername, address, location, phone
Booking: Bookingid, days, totaldays, dates, name
Category: Family, Group, Couple, Friends
Siteusers: Hotelstaff, customer, Systemstaff
Feedback: rating, review
Business Operations to be automated by Online Hotel Booking Website
Get customer details
validate user
Login
Logout
change password
forgot password
Notify
Update customer personal information
register hotel
Show Offers
Show available rooms for given date
Filters for rooms search
Show rooms detail
Compare rooms and prices
Booking of room
Payment options
Payment
Payment Confirmation
Booking confirmation
Booking Status
Feedback
Complaints
Customer Support
Booking cancellation
Amount Refund
Update rooms available

